OK, so let's get started.
I'm going to start with a few definitions.
So, a sample space is a collection
of all possible outcomes of an experiment.
And an event-- we'll denote that with capital letters-- A, B, C,
things like that-- is any collection of outcomes,
including individual outcomes, the entire sample
space, the null set, et cetera.
So we have some kind of experiment,
and I'll do some examples in a few minutes
to add some concreteness to this.
But we have some experiment, and an event
is a collection of outcomes of that experiment.
So if the outcome of the experiment
is a member of an event, then we say
that the event has occurred.

And event A is contained in event B, if every outcome in B
also belongs in A.
So here, we're just establishing a bunch
of terminology and definitions.
And as you have probably gathered,
these things that I'm defining are sets.
And so we're going to use many of the same definitions
and results from set theory in probability theory,
because we're setting everything out,
or the mathematical foundation is the one from set theory.
So all the results from set theory
are going to apply-- the associative, communicative,
distributive properties, et cetera.
And here, I'm just going to post some useful results,
without much discussion of them.
If you've done some set theory, some probability theory,
these things should be pretty familiar to you.
If an event A is contained in another event,
B, then the union of those two events is equal to event B.

I should point out a couple of notes about notation.
So the sign that looks kind of like a C is how we indicate
contained in.
And that piece of notation is straight from set theory.

And this capital U kind of thing is how we indicate union--
and again, that notation is straight from set theory.

The second useful result, if A is contained in B,
and B is contained in A, then the events A and B are equal.

And if A is contained in B, then AB is equal to A.
Now here is actually one place where
the notation between set theory and probability theory
deviates a little bit.
Oh, actually, let me skip ahead.
In set theory, typically we indicate the intersection
between two sets with a symbol that looks like this.
And in probability, we usually just leave that out.
So instead of talking about-- or writing-- the intersection
of AB like this, we usually just write the intersection
of AB this way.
And I'll follow that convention most of the time--
just leave out the intersection symbol.

And let's see, I'll go back for a second.
And then finally, the union between A and A complement
is equal to the sample space.
So again, these are mostly definitions
taken straight from set theory.
You can check standard set theory references
if you need a little refresher, but for the most part,
we're going to rely on the apparatus of set theory
initially.

OK, two other important definitions
where probability theory uses slightly different terminology
than set theory is the following two.
So we say that A and B are mutually exclusive, if they
have no outcomes in common.
So we have two events, and if they don't share any outcomes,
then we say they're mutually exclusive.
We also sometimes say they're disjoint, and in set theory
we'll typically talk about them being disjoint.
In probability theory, you use the term mutually exclusive
more commonly.
A and B, events A and B are exhaustive
if their union is equal to the entire sample space.
And again, in set theory, we'll typically
use the term complementary instead of exhaustive,
and in probability theory we'll usually use exhaustive.
They mean the same thing.
So oftentimes we'll talk about-- and we'll
talk about later today-- groups of events that are mutually
exclusive and exhaustive.
And that just means that their union
is equal to the sample space, but they
have no events in common.
And another term for that is a partition--
they form a partition of the sample space.